The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Trinity Archive, Vol. I, No. 8, June
1888, by Trinity College

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Trinity Archive, Vol. I, No. 8, June 1888

Author: Trinity College

Release Date: February 17, 2021 [eBook #64584]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: hekula03 and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made
             available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRINITY ARCHIVE, VOL. I, NO.
8, JUNE 1888 ***




Transcriber’s Notes:

  Underscores “_” before and after a word or phrase indicate _italics_
    in the original text.
  Equal signs “=” before and after a word or phrase indicate =bold=
    in the original text.
  Small capitals have been converted to SOLID capitals.
  Typographical and punctuation errors have been silently corrected.




             VOL. I.        JUNE, 1888.         NO. 8.

                                THE
                           TRINITY ARCHIVE.

                _PUBLISHED BY THE LITERARY SOCIETIES._

      MONTHLY.       TRINITY COLLEGE, N. C.       PRICE, 15 CTS.




CONTENTS.


    RE-UNION                                    143
    COMMENCEMENT                                143-144
    THE CLERGY AS EXHIBITED IN THE VERNACULAR
           LITERATURE BEFORE THE REFORMATION    144-147

    TRINITY—TRINITY’S PAST                      147-150
      THE PRESENT                               150-151
      THE FUTURE                                151-153

    SENIOR CLASS OF ’88                         153-155
    ANECDOTES TOLD BY OLD BOYS                  155-157
    LOCALS                                      157-159




MANAGERS’ NOTICES.


Correspondents will please send all matter intended for publication to
Prof. J. L. Armstrong, Trinity College, N. C.

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.

One dollar, per scholastic year (nine issues), if paid in advance; if
not paid in advance, one dollar and twenty cents.

To any one who will send us a Club of Five cash yearly subscribers, we
will give a year’s subscription, free.

Remittances should be made by postal note, postal order, or registered
letter, and made payable to “Business Managers of the TRINITY
ARCHIVE.”

TERMS OF ADVERTISING.

    1 column, per issue, $3.00; per scholastic year, $20.00
    ½    “        “       1.75;        “              12.00
    ⅓    “        “       1.25;        “               9.00
    1  inch,      “        .75;        “               5.00

All business communications should be forwarded to

                                 NICHOLSON & JONES,
                                   _Business Managers_,
                                    TRINITY COLLEGE, N. C.

            _Entered as second-class matter in Post Office
                      at Trinity College, N. C._


                           Spring and Summer

                               CLOTHING.

                    _We are now ready to show you
                   the largest, finest and cheapest
                               stock of_

                           CLOTHING,  HATS,

                                 —AND—

                           Furnishing Goods

                     ever seen in North Carolina.

            Our buyer has been in New York for the last two
         months, selecting our stock, and we can guarantee you
         we have everything in the very latest styles out. All
         our goods were bought from the very best manufacturers
         at the lowest cash prices, and we intend to sell our
         customers better goods for less money than they have
         ever bought before. And as we are the only Exclusive
         Clothiers in Greensboro, we intend to keep everything
         in the clothing line for

                          MEN, YOUTHS & BOYS

         from size 50 for men, down to age 3 for boys. All we ask
         is to come and examine our stock and we will guarantee
         you will save money by buying from us.

                          Very Respectfully,
                             F. FISHBLATE,
                                LEADING CLOTHIER,
                                         GREENSBORO, N. C.

         C. M. VANSTORY, MANAGER.

           P. S. Suits made to order from samples a specialty.
         Orders by mail will receive prompt attention.


                             A FREE TICKET
                                  TO
                         Farrior & Crabtree’s
                         Boot and Shoe Store,
                 South Elm St.,      GREENSBORO, N. C.

                            SOLE AGENTS FOR
                    Zeigler Bros., Jas. Means’ $3,
                        And Wm. Dorsch & Son’s

                              FINE GOODS.


                            C. B. HAYWORTH,
                    _The People’s Liveryman_,
                           HIGH POINT, N. C.

            Good Stock and conveyances. Prices reasonable.
               Patronage of Trinity Students solicited.


                          MOFFITT & BRADSHAW,
                   _DRUGGISTS AND PHARMACISTS_,
          Next Door above Bank,      _High Point, N. C._

                              DEALERS IN
                       PURE DRUGS AND MEDICINES,
              Toilet and Fancy Articles, Perfumeries. &c.

      We cordially invite students and friends of Trinity College
       to call and see us when in need of anything in our line.


                          FRIENDS OF TRINITY,
                             SUBSCRIBE FOR
                        _THE TRINITY ARCHIVE_.
                            $1.00 PER YEAR.

              _Business Friends Send us Advertisements._

                Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes.

         [Illustration]

           Cigarette smokers who are willing to pay a
         little more than the price charged for the
         ordinary trade cigarettes, will find this brand
         superior to all others.

              The Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes

         are made from the brightest, most delicately
         flavored and highest cost gold leaf grown in
         Virginia. This is the old and original brand of
         Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us
         in the year 1875. Beware of imitations and observe
         that the firm name as below is on every package.

                  ALLEN & GINTER, MANUFACTURERS,
                                      RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.


                              GREENSBORO
                            Female College,
                           GREENSBORO, N. C.

    The Sixty-Sixth Session of this well-equipped and prosperous
    School will begin on the 11th of January, 1888. Faculty (consisting
    of three Gentleman and eleven Ladies) able, accomplished and
    faithful. Instruction thorough in all departments. Superior
    advantages offered in the departments of

              Music, Art, Elocution and Modern Languages.

    Location, healthful and beautiful; fare good. Premises large,
    with ample walks for out-door recreation. Buildings large,
    convenient, comfortable, and furnished with all the appliances of
    A FIRST CLASS FEMALE COLLEGE.

    Special attention paid to physical health, comfort, and development,
    and moral and spiritual culture.

    For catalogue apply to

                     T. M. JONES, PRESIDENT.


                       Group Photographs.

    I would announce to the students of Trinity College
    that with a view to doing school work I have
    specially fitted myself for making

                          LARGE GROUPS,

    such as Classes, Fraternities, Literary Societies, &c.
    Will be glad to serve with whatever they need in
    Photography, in that or any other line of work. I
    also make

    Portrait Frames and Mats to Order.

    Respectfully,
              =S. L. ALDERMAN=,
                         GREENSBORO, N. C.




THE TRINITY ARCHIVE.

Published under Supervision of the Professor of English.

TRINITY COLLEGE, JUNE, 1888.

                               EDITORS.

                     HESPERIAN.         COLUMBIAN.

                  M. C. THOMAS,         D. C. ROPER,
                  J. S. BASSETT,        W. J. HELMS,
                  A. M. SHARP,          G. N. RAPER,
                  G. T. ADAMS,          E. K. WOLFE,
                  T. E. MCCRARY,        W. J. CRANFORD.

The Re-union of the old students, both graduates and non-graduates, of
Trinity College took place on Wednesday, June 13th, at 2 P. M.

The occasion was full of interest and profit to both students and
general visitors. The most of the classes, since the foundation of the
college, were represented and the representatives, in short speeches,
told the history of their respective classes. It is noteworthy in all
the talks of the occasion that greater interest is being manifested
in Trinity’s future than ever before. The Alumni and friends are all
convinced that it is high time that the Methodists of North Carolina
should pay their long contracted debt to this grand old institution of
learning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commencement, the long wished for period in the scholastic year, has
come and gone. Everything passed off so pleasantly and quietly that the
exercises now seem only a dream. Every exercise of commencement week
was favored with good weather and a large audience. The exercises began
on Friday evening with the orations and declamations by representatives
of the preparatory and special classes. The speakers did well. The
representatives of the Freshman and Sophomore classes delivered their
orations on Saturday evening. These orations were well written and well
delivered. The sermon, delivered Sunday morning by Rev. W. H. Moore,
of Washington, N. C., was greatly enjoyed by all. The Praise meeting
on Sunday evening at 8 p. m., proved a success. On Monday evening, the
Juniors delivered their orations. These orations were very interesting
and showed a great deal of original work on the part of the orators.
Owing to the sickness of Dr. Bays, the address before the two societies
was not delivered on Tuesday evening. The sermon on Wednesday, before
the graduating class, was indeed a fine effort, and all were convinced
that the subject preached from, “Go, and may God go with you,” had been
complied with by Rev. W. E. Creasy. Hon. J. W. Mauney addressed the
alumni association on Wednesday night for a few minutes on the subject
of “Law and Order.” About eight hundred dollars were raised. The
exercises of Thursday were of special interest. The Seniors delivered
their orations with ease and interest. The address which had been
delayed until this time was now delivered. Without doubt, this was the
finest address delivered at this college in many a year. Immediately
after the degrees were conferred and the Medals presented, Mr. W. G.
Burkhead, in well chosen words and felicitous manner, spoke in behalf
of endowment for a chair, to be called the “Braxton Craven Chair,” in
honor of him who so long and so faithfully toiled for the institution.




The Clergy as Exhibited in the Vernacular Literature before the
Reformation.


The clergy of the Middle Ages and previous to the Reformation were
secularized. To the spiritual wants of the masses they gave little
heed, but spent the large portion of their time in riotous living, in
ambitious schemes, and in devising means by which to retain their hold
on the superstitions of the common people. The monks, whose chief vow
was that of personal poverty, had become so wealthy in the aggregate,
that the monasteries were seats of the most comfortable living to be
found. They were composed of several different orders, the chief of
which were the Franciscan and the Dominican, who hated each other so
bitterly that Luther’s crusade against Tetzel was regarded by the Pope
as merely one of the common quarrels between the two orders of monks.
The fairest buildings, the best filled larders, the most fertile
fields, the enormous revenue which poured into their coffers, and
the patronage of the mighty hierarchy of Rome, all conspired to make
pleasant the lives of the members of these powerful corporations.

The larger part of the expenses of these great establishments had to
be borne by the lower classes of the people, to whom the monastic
orders were supposed to minister. This was oppressive everywhere,
but was complained of most bitterly in Germany. Here the extortions
of the Romish Church left scarcely the means of sustenance and the
poor peasant was continually harassed by demands for more money. No
religious ceremony could be performed, nothing could be done for his
benefit, nor even a Christian burial, without the dropping of gold into
the hand of the priest, so that, in the language of a contemporary
writer from among the people, it seemed indeed that Heaven itself was
closed to those that had no money.

In other countries, also, these evils were great, more especially in
Italy, where the Papal court was held. Here the supreme rulers of the
Catholic Church, who should by their virtues have set the example of
a consistent Christian life to those under them, devoted themselves,
sometimes to political intrigues for the aggrandizement of themselves
and their own house, sometimes in carousing and wild dissipation, in
which under pontiffs like Alexander VI., the excess of their wickedness
disgraced Christendom. Revenues extorted from all sides were squandered
as freely as water on magnificent palaces and costly works of art.
The monasteries, with all their abuses in the worst period of their
existence never attained the height of wickedness which was developed
at different periods by the highest dignitaries of the court of Rome.

Thus we would naturally conclude that the oppressive tendencies of the
priesthood, and indeed of the whole machinery of the Romish Church,
together with the unholy career so commonly led by men occupying its
most sacred offices, to whom the people would justly look for an
example of vastly different life, would have a powerful effect toward
the alienation of the masses. These were supplemented by an evil
of probably greater tendencies in the same direction, and of wider
influence for mischief. This was the perversions and innovations which
from time to time had been made in the original Christian doctrine by
the priests. For several centuries back, indeed not long after the time
of Christ, changes had begun to appear in the Christian religion. As
it was introduced into foreign countries, it often absorbed some of
the customs and traditions of the worship it had supplanted. Besides
this, numberless saints were created, every prominent pope or martyr
being canonized, days of the year were set bearing their names and
observances in their honor, then fasts, feasts, anniversaries and
jubilees, many of which were of heathen origin, followed. Many new
requirements, such as celibacy, were laid upon the priests, and
such ceremonies as the burning of candles and the saying of masses
had become a prominent part of religion, so that, with these things
and numerous others of a like nature, the life of the Catholics was
burdened with onerous exactions, not one-tenth of which could have been
justified by reference to the Holy Scriptures.

The reasoning of the early writers, which finally culminated in the
abstruse discussions of the schoolmen, developed some remarkable
doctrines. They discovered that all holding offices in the Church,
from the priests up, were forbidden to marry, they ordered the shaving
of their heads and denounced the wearing of beards as a sin, and
they proclaimed, on the authority of certain documents known as the
Isodorian Decretals alleged to have been miraculously found in the
second century, that the Pope was the successor of St. Peter, and
therefore under divine guidance and unable to err or do anything wrong,
a doctrine, however, which the career of such a pope as Alexander VI.
would be calculated to seriously upset. These writers, in recording
the events of the past, sadly failed to adhere to strict accuracy of
statement, and interwove with the facts astonishing tales of miraculous
events and legends of martyrs, saints and devils, which, though now so
palpably absurd as to be interesting only as relics of the Middle Ages,
were then seized on with unhesitating faith by the larger portion of
the people.

These and many other uncouth things were forced upon the credulity
of the mediæval peoples and, as we have said, found such general
acceptance among the common people that to disbelieve them implied a
lamentable want of faith. Many of these outlandish legends, which once
obtained so general credence, have been handed down to the present
generation. Such are the legends of St. George, Prester John, the
Wandering Jew, Antichrist and Pope Joan, the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus.

With the Church thus superstitious and oppressive, so warped and
distorted from that pure religion which Christ gave to his disciples
and to the world, it is not strange that learned men, who were above
superstition should turn to humanism and to the doctrines of Socrates,
Plato, and Aristotle, seeking in the works of the ancient philosophers
a purer guide to holiness than that held out to them by the Church of
Rome. Nor was this all. The common people, who had patiently endured
it for centuries, were becoming restive under the grievous system, so
that the sixteenth century opened with general signs of discontent and
dissatisfaction among the peasantry, the unlearned, the agricultural
and laboring classes of a large portion of Europe. They bewailed their
hard lot and the severity of their rulers, they spoke in anger and
scorn of the degeneracy and licentiousness of the clergy, and demanded
indignantly to know why they were so absorbed in the world and so
negligent of their duties and of the pressing spiritual wants of those
around them. This feeling did not spring up suddenly, it was a slow
but steady growth extending through many generations. That grand poet
Geoffrey Chaucer, more than two hundred years before the time of which
we speak, in the first great poems of the mother tongue that England
had ever written, had sharply attacked the clerical abuses of his day.
He transfixes with his indignant scorn the mummeries and chicanery, the
extortions and oppressions practiced by the priesthood, those worthless
officers of the Church, who devoted themselves to the pleasures of the
chase and to riotous living and worldly schemes, and who spent their
time amid the gaities of London, wholly regardless of their neglected
charges. So plainly does he picture it to us that we can almost see the
pompous monk, the clerk, the choleric reeve, the summoner, and the man
whom he holds up for our admiration and reverence, the “poore persoun
of a town,” a simple, honest man who faithfully performed his duties,
who, living an exemplary Christian life might himself thus the more
efficaciously teach it to others and who never divided his attention
nor distracted his mind by meddling in ambitious schemes outside his
appointed work. These works, voicing the formless opinions of the
people had an influence.

Shortly previous to the reformation came from the pen of William
Langland the “Vision of Piers Ploughman,” a long poem of several
divisions, which also attacked the clerical abuses, the negligence and
lax-mindedness of the clergy on moral principles and pointed out the
imperative need of reform. This book contained much that was elevated
and noble, and was at the time of its publication a power for good in
England.

Already had the Bible been translated. Moreover, many were actively at
work scattering the seed of reformation in the mother tongue, but time
does not permit us to dwell on them now, as we must pass on to glance
at the progress of this work in other nations.

In Germany, Ulrich von Hutten, a distinguished knight and a polished
scholar, denounced the abuses of the Romish Church and wielded his
poet’s pen in defense of the approaching revolution, while in Italy
the Papal court had scarcely recovered from the bitter denunciations
of popish tyranny and ecclesiastical vice, by which Savonarola had for
a time aroused the Christian world. In Spain, Valdez, the brother of
Charles V.’s private secretary, had also severely commented upon the
evils of the same corrupt system, and it is certain that a condition of
affairs could be found in Spain to justify the most severe condemnation
that could be administered by the pen of man. That these writings
exercised a wonderful influence in their time is beyond doubt. It
is not too strong a figure to say that those men, who thus vividly
pictured, in a language understood by the masses, the evils and wrongs
they suffered, and pointed out in the future light of a brighter and
a better day, were new John Baptists, arousing the Christian world
to prepare itself for freedom from the tyranny and sin of the Roman
Catholic Church.




TRINITY.


This is a critical time in the history of the College and a suitable
time, in the judgment of the editors, to give a short sketch of the
institution in the past, a summary of facts incident to important
changes in the present year, and an outline of plans proposed for the
future. This edition of THE ARCHIVE is especially addressed
to the Methodists of North Carolina, the patronizing Conference, and
to the Alumni. We bespeak for the three following articles a careful
perusal.


TRINITY’S PAST.[1]

The following facts have been gathered from authoritative sources.

By an act of the Legislature in 1859 Normal College was changed to
Trinity. The connection with the State was revived and the institution
became a regular denominational college. Increased prosperity was the
result of this arrangement. From 1859 to 1862, the average number of
matriculation annually was 204; the gross income, seventy-five hundred
dollars per annum, losses three hundred and eighty dollars, gratuitous
tuition, eight hundred and thirty dollars.

[1] The facts here given, it must be kept in mind, are for the period
beginning with 1859.

During the whole time, expulsions five; deaths, three; conversions,
one hundred and sixty-five. These were by far the most prosperous
years the College has ever had; current expenses were more nearly met
than at any time in the following 20 years, opposition had died away,
agents appointed by the Conference were readily securing ample funds
for elegant and commodious buildings. Some gentlemen were proposing to
inaugurate a handsome endowment, every thing was favorable for a secure
foundation of prosperity. By the war, all was changed.

During the war, the exercises of the institution were continued with
a variable but constantly decreasing number of students. In 1863 Dr.
Craven resigned as President, and was stationed for two years at
Edenton Street church, in the city of Raleigh.

Prof. W. T. Gannaway was placed in charge as President _pro tempore_,
and continued with a small number of students until the arrival of
General Hardee’s corps in April, 1865. Dr. Mangum pays Prof. Gannaway
the following tribute: “He has been toiling with great fidelity and
usefulness for over thirty-two years. He has stood by the struggling
school throughout all its vicissitudes. For 27 years he had the
enormous work of eight full recitations a day. His chairs of Latin has
sometimes been loaded with Greek, sometimes with History, sometimes
with French. But he has carried his burden over the long years most
nobly and heroically. Emory and Henry did a blessed work for North
Carolina when she sent Trinity this accomplished christian teacher.
What a debt we all owe him.” After April, 1865, the exercises were
suspended until the following January. In the fall of 1865, Dr. Craven,
the former president, was re-elected, and having been requested by
the Conference to accept the position, he proceeded immediately after
Conference to repair and re-open the institution.

From 1866 to 1876 the average number of matriculations was one hundred
and fifty-five; gross annual income, six thousand dollars; losses,
three hundred and forty dollars; gratuitous tuition, six hundred
and twenty; for the whole time, deaths, four; expulsions, four;
conversions, three hundred and thirty-two.

From 1859 to 1887 inclusive, there have been 340 graduates including
three ladies. Of these there are 53 lawyers, 20 physicians, 34
preachers, 70 teachers and professors in colleges, 12 journalists, and
the rest farmers and merchants.

Of Trinity’s Alumni, 5 have become judges, 7 solicitors, 11 either
presidents or professors of leading colleges, 49 have been members of
the Legislature of the different States and Territories. Quite a number
of them have been in Congress from 2 to 8 years.

The honorary degree of Master of Arts has been conferred upon 17
persons, Doctor of Divinity upon 22, and Doctor of Laws upon 3.

The Professors have been as follows:

       {L. Johnson, A. M., 1859-1884.
    [2]{I. L. Wright, A. M., 1859-1865.
       {W. T. Gannaway, A. M., 1859 to the present.
        O. W. Carr, A. M., 1868-1877.
        Rev. Peter Doub, D. D. 1866-1870.
        W. C. Doub, A. M., 1867-1873.
        J. W. Young, 1864-1865.
        Rev. W. H. Pegram, A. M., 1875, to the present.
        C. P. Frazier, A. M., 1878-1879.
        J. D. Hodges, A. M., 1879-1882.
        Rev. J. F. Heitman, A. M., 1883 to the present.
        H. H. Williams, A. M., 1884-1885.
        J. M. Bandy, A. M., 1884 to present.
        A. W. Long, A. B., 1884-1887.
        N. C. English, A. M., 1884, to present.
        J. L. Armstrong, 1887, to present.

[2] Johnson and Wright were Professors 4 years in Normal College and
Gannaway 2 years.

On the 7th of November, 1882, Rev. B. Craven, D. D., LL. D., the
honored President and founder of the institution, died, and Prof. W. H.
Pegram was appointed chairman of the Faculty till the Board of Trustees
could meet and elect a President but it was deemed advisable by the
Board to continue that arrangement until the close of the scholastic
year.

At the Commencement in June, 1883, Rev. Marcus L. Wood, A. M., D.
D., a graduate of Trinity of the class of ’55, was chosen President,
who assumed the duties of this position on the 5th day of Sept., of
the same year, and all fears that the College would not survive the
death of its great founder passed away. President Wood was assisted by
four Professors, who did all in their power to promote the interests
of the College. At the meeting of the Conference, 1884, President
Wood resigned and Rev. John F. Heitman was appointed chairman of
the Faculty, under whose administration the financial as well as
other features of the College were greatly improved. This period
marks an epoch in the history of Trinity College. At the same time
that Professor Heitman was appointed chairman of the Faculty, H. H.
Williams, J. M. Bandy, N. C. English and A. W. Long were elected
Professors. The chairman with his corps of instructors infused new life
into the College, which has resulted in rapid growth and development.

One special feature of this administration was the establishment of a
Preparatory Department over which the efficient and popular Prof. N. C.
English still presides.

This period is closed with the election to the Presidency of J. F.
Crowell, A. B. (Yale), who entered upon his office at the beginning of
this scholastic year.


THE PRESENT.

This is an age of progress in almost every department, but in none
more so than in educational affairs. The institution that does not
imbibe this progressive spirit will soon be relegated to the shades
of antiquity. New methods of teaching and of managing young men
have now been adopted in most of the leading institutions of this
country. Trinity during the past year has made rapid strides toward
the attainment of better methods by which the young men of this State
may be able to secure thorough collegiate education. This reform has
been as marked in the management of the students as in the methods of
instruction. A young man is now put on his honor as to his conduct.
He is supposed to possess the elements of true manhood, and it is not
considered necessary to have spies to watch his every movement. This
tends to make him better behaved than he, perhaps, would otherwise be.
Each class has a dean and a monitor, a professor acting as dean and a
member of the class as monitor. The monitor reports all absentees from
chapel exercises, and the absentees hand their excuses to the dean of
their class who presents it to the faculty. The decision of the faculty
can be learned by reference to the bulletin board. This method, in
the end, saves a great deal of time and trouble. There has been
better order during the past year than in almost any other year of
the college’s history. The libraries of the two Societies have been
consolidated and placed in a more commodious and suitable room. A first
class reading-room has been established, and now no student has any
excuse for being ignorant of the current news of the day, as the very
best newspapers and magazines can always be found on the reading-room
tables. One of the most beneficial steps taken by the students of the
institution was the formation of a branch of the Y. M. C. A., which
has already resulted in great good. The grandest movement, though,
that has yet been undertaken by the young men of this institution is
their having obligated themselves to do all in their power to raise
enough money to erect a new building to be used for the library and
the Society halls. This shows the enthusiasm that has been awakened
among the students by the wise and efficient work done by the various
members of the faculty during this year; it shows that they are
heartily in sympathy with all the efforts for the college’s up-building.
The curriculum has been improved, having been considerably extended,
especially in the departments of English and History. Two well
equipped, progressive teachers have been placed at the head of these
departments, and the result is that the scholars are more thorough
on these two important branches of collegiate education. Heretofore
the chairs of History and English have been consolidated, necessarily
causing the instruction in each to be rather limited. This is the first
year in which Trinity has had a President, since the resignation of
Rev. M. L. Wood, D.D. Two new members of the faculty have, of course,
added no little towards the means of usefulness of the institution.
More students have matriculated here during this year than in any one
of the past ten years, which should be a great encouragement to the
friends of the college. This school year has been indeed a turning
point for the better in Trinity’s career, new fields of thought have
been opened up to the students. Every alumnus of this institution
should feel proud of what his _Alma Mater_ has achieved during this
year under somewhat adverse circumstances, and should rally to the
rescue, and show his appreciation by doing all in his power to sustain
the “new administration” by getting as many young men as possible to
come here next fall.


THE FUTURE.

This has been, indeed, an auspicious year for Trinity. Not only has the
year’s work been good and the institution brought more prominently
before the public, but there has been work done within its walls that
is indicative of a bright future and that can be correctly measured
only by the future. The President and Faculty have faithfully labored
with an eye to the future, believing that time and experience will
prove the wisdom of their course. The curriculum has been revised.
It is their object to keep it squarely abreast with the educational
demands of the age. The College is now divided into two Departments:
the Academic, including the first two years; and the Scientific,
including the last two years.

The Academic has three courses: the Classical, the distinguishing
studies of which are Greek and Latin; the Modern, distinguished by
German and French; and the English, requiring English studies only.
Mathematics, English and History are equal in the three. Other studies
are not equal, consequently, the conditions for admission to College
will not be the same for all the courses, the Classical requiring
the most. These conditions will be enlarged from year to year as may
be thought best. In this Department, special attention will be given
to mental discipline, to methods and to laying such foundations in
study as will best prepare students for the more independent work and
scientific research to follow.

The Scientific Department is composed of fifteen different schools,
and this number may be expanded according to the number of instructors
employed. Its characteristic features are the cultivation of all the
Sciences, original inquiry and freedom to select from these schools
studies, within certain prescribed limits, according to the peculiar
taste of the student. This curriculum will lead to four different
degrees, according to the selections made from the schools. It is,
consequently, varied sufficiently to please all, from the classically
inclined to the devotee of science, and full and thorough enough to
satisfy the demands which the age is making upon Colleges. Indeed,
the general, but constant, aim will be to make the college a more
potent and independent factor, through its influence, for moulding
public opinion and elevating public life, in religion, in education,
in government and in the industries of the country. In order better
to do this, and believing that the time has come when there is a wise
demand for three _different_ institutions in our national educational
system, the Preparatory school, the College, and the University, the
authorities have abolished the Preparatory Department heretofore
connected with the College, and will give their influence to the
up-building throughout the State of first class preparatory schools,
which may act as feeders to the Colleges. The lack of such schools has
greatly retarded the advancement of education throughout the whole
country. College work should begin where that of the better class of
lower schools closes, and end where the best Universities take it
up. This is the rational, economical plan, and the one that Trinity
proposes to follow. Thus each of the three institutions will be better
able to do its peculiar work. The College will be relieved and can, in
turn, relieve the Universities of the burden of doing College work, and
then the Universities can engage their powers in answering the demand
for true University work.

This is a general statement of the Faculty’s plan for the future work
and management of the College, but they are not alone in the work. They
have an active, energetic Board of Trustees to co-operate and assist by
action as well as by word. It is the Board’s purpose and determination,
so far as in them lies, to make and keep the institution the peer of
the best of its kind in the South. Upon them, in a large measure,
devolves the financial support and management and, consequently, the
success of the institution. To this demand they are ready to respond,
and are responding. Every one that has given the subject thought
concurs with the late Dr. Craven that “to meet the demand of the times,
keep pace with improvements and growth, and hold equal pace with a host
of noble competitors, one hundred thousand dollars endowment must be
realized at an early day. Her alumni and friends _can_ do the work.”
While the endowment has long been delayed, Trinity has done a work
without it, of which any institution might be proud. But with this fund
partly raised and the rest well under way, we think we see a career
before Trinity that will make glad the heart of every Methodist and of
every friend of christian education, provided always that he has done
his part in consummating the noble work. To do this fully requires
only an effort from each one. Then will not every one unite hands with
the devoted, self-sacrificing Faculty and earnest Board of Trustees in
achieving a work that is to surprise the most hopeful? What say you,
reader? or, rather, what will you _do_ toward securing this nucleus of
an endowment?




SENIOR CLASS OF ’88.


William Eugene Fink was born in Cabarrus county, N. C., Nov. 2nd,
1862; alternately worked on his father’s farm and attended neighboring
schools until eighteen years of age; then joined a ‘trestle-building
gang’ on the Ducktown Rail Road, and continued employed in this
occupation for one year; returned home and entered North Carolina
College January, ’82, where he remained till May 20th, ’83; entered the
Freshman Class at Trinity College September 10th, ’83; was out during
the session of ’84-’5; returned and entered the Sophomore Class August
25th, ’85. After receiving his diploma, Mr. Fink will rusticate for the
summer upon his father’s farm; he will then seek the broad plains of
the West, and join the revelries of the ‘coyotes’ and the Indians and
the cow-boys.

James Joseph Scarboro, first saw the light in Montgomery county, N. C.,
July 23rd, 1863; worked upon his father’s farm till 1883, attending the
common schools of the community when such were being taught; entered,
after 1883 Mt. Gilead High School, and there under the tuition of Prof.
R. H. Skeen, remained two years; entered the Sophomore class at Trinity
College in August, ’85. Mr. Scarboro proposes to make teaching his life
work.

Edward L. Ragan was born March 26th, 1864, at “Bloomington,” N. C.;
labored on the farm until 1881, sometimes attending public schools;
entered, in 1881, the Preparatory Department at Trinity College; left
college in ’82, and sold goods in High Point; re-entered college at
Trinity in ’85, this time joining the Freshman Class, half advanced.
When Mr. Ragan receives his diploma, he intends to till the soil.

Joseph Amos Ragan was born at “Bloomington,” N. C., Sept. 26th, 1865.
He, too, farmed and attended public schools. His principle occupation
while on the farm was driving oxen, and he tells some amusing incidents
about his “tail-twisting” experience. Mr. Ragan entered the Preparatory
Class at Trinity in ’81, but after ’82 dropped out. He re-entered
College in ’85. Mr. Ragan has not fully decided as to his occupation
after leaving college, but thinks he will teach or read medicine.

William Alexander Barrett, entered this world in Caswell county, N. C.,
the 2nd or 4th day of February, 1867. Being a Methodist preacher’s son,
he has had no fixed home, having lived in nine or ten different towns
in North Carolina, but in not one of them longer than four years. The
meagre preparation which Mr. Barrett had to enter college was obtained
at Statesville Male Academy. He entered the Freshman Class at Trinity
College in August of ’85. Mr. Barrett intends to make the law his
profession.

Daniel Calhoun Roper was born April 1st, 1867, in Marlboro county, S.
C. Mr. Roper being the son of a farmer was brought up as a farmer boy.
He attended the schools of his neighborhood until 1881, when he entered
Laurinburg High School in Richmond county, N. C. Here he remained
until ’84, when he entered Wofford College, Spartanburg, S. C. He was
taken sick in the latter part of his Sophomore year, and was compelled
to leave college on account of his health. Being attracted by the
healthful climate and by the hospitality of the North Carolina people,
Mr. Roper came to Trinity in September of ’86 and entered the Junior
Class. He will continue to farm, after getting his diploma.

Theodore Earl McCrary has for his birth-place Lexington, N. C., and
for his birth-day June 5th, 1867. He worked with his father in the
furniture business, and attended various schools in Lexington, the
chief of which was that conducted by Miss Laura Clement and the
Southern Normal. Mr. McCrary came to Trinity College Jan. 12th, 1886
and entered the Junior Class. He remained away from college during
the fall term of ’86 on account of ill-health, but returned at the
beginning of the spring term of ’87. Mr. McCrary is as yet undecided as
to what shall be his occupation.

John Spenser Bassett was born Sept. 10th, 1867, at Tarboro, N. C. While
he was an infant his father moved to Goldsboro, N. C. At the age of
nine years he moved to Richlands, Onslow county, N. C., but returned to
Goldsboro in a few years and that is now his home. Mr. Bassett attended
Richlands Academy; was graduated in ’85 from Goldsboro Graded and High
School; then attended Davis School; came to Trinity in August of ’86
and entered the Junior Class. After leaving college, Mr. Bassett will
“do anything honorable which affords a support.”

George Newton Raper was born Dec. 15th, 1867 near High Point; worked on
the farm and attended the “back-woods” school until Jan., 1883, when he
went to Oak Ridge Institute; remained in school there till November of
the same year, and then taught a public school for three and a half
months; entered the Blair High School at High Point in March ’84, and
remained there until June ’85, completing the course in this school;
then for a time sold books in Guilford county, and the people of that
county still refer to him as “Book Agent;” taught school during the
winter of ’85-’86, and entered the Sophomore Class at Trinity College
Feb. 3d, 1886. Mr. Raper will teach.

John C. Montgomery was born in Concord, N.C., Aug. 30th, 1868. Concord
has always been his home. He was prepared for college at Concord High
School under the tuition of Prof. R. S. Arrowwood. Mr. Montgomery came
to Trinity College Aug. 24th, 1885 and entered the Sophomore Class. He
proposes to read medicine after leaving college. It is his intention
to confine himself to a specialty, and he will devote himself to the
treatment of the eye.




ANECDOTES TOLD BY OLD BOYS.


_Rabbit vs. Cat._—Formerly it was customary for Trinity boys to have
rabbit feasts in their rooms at night. They indulged in this to such
an extent one winter season, that it became unsafe to leave a dressed
rabbit exposed, for some one would be sure to steal it. A party of
students caught a rabbit and left it in their room with the expectation
of banqueting on it that night. While they were out, much to their
chagrin a second party appropriated the rabbit, and the whetted
appetites of party No. 1 had to remain unsatiated. Means for revenge
were devised. They obtained a cat, dressed it, and left it in their
room, as they had left the rabbit before. Again party No. 2 stole the
game. They cooked it nicely and had a delicious feast. Believing they
had baffled party No. 1 a second time, they, to carry out the joke
more fully, returned the bones to said party. Thereupon, party No. 1
sent them the claws, hide and tail of the cat they had eaten. Shades
of departed cats! what a sick set they were! “Mew, mew,” was the only
sound heard about the college for two weeks.

_The Joke Turns._—An old student of Trinity once took a newy
snipe-hunting. After traveling about five miles from the village, he
left him to hold the bag (into which he would drive the snipes), with
the intention of returning to Trinity himself, and leaving the newy to
find his way home as best he could. Unfortunately for the old student,
he missed the road and finally wandered back to the newy who by that
time suspected the joke, and found out also that the old student had
lost his way. He accordingly compelled the would-be joker to pay him
one dollar to conduct him back to Trinity. Tradition says that student
never took another newy to hunt snipes.

_The Mutual Aid-the-Stuck-Society._—This was established for the
benefit of those boys whose conversational powers are soon exhausted,
and who become “stuck.” Each member was sworn to relieve any other
member who might be _stuck_ with a young lady on any public occasion,
such as commencement, Senior Presentation, at sociables, etc. It was
only necessary for him who was _stuck_ to wink at some brother member
and he would be immediately relieved.

Quite a number of new boys joined the society. On the first occasion
which presented itself for the practical operation of the society,
the founders engaged the company of ladies. Apparently they were soon
stuck. They gave the wink to their fellow members (the newies) who came
gallantly and promptly to their relief. By and by the newies became
stuck (really). In vain they winked. No one came to their rescue. The
society held no more meetings after this event.

_On the Wrong Scent._—Boys who boarded some little distance from
the village used to have a study room furnished them in the College
building. The one opposite Prof. Gannaway’s recitation-room was so
used. It was supplied with desks, and was often occupied by quite a
number. One day, when fun ran riot, the room was “packed,” and T. W. W.
climbed upon the top desk of the tower that had been built—presumably
to make a speech—but some one kicked out the corner-stone desk,
thereby precipitating a combined earthquake and thunder-clap. Prof.
G. came to the door, with his specs adjusted to fit the occasion, and
asked where that noise was. W. looked the Prof. right in the face and
said, “I saw some one run upstairs.” The Prof. started off to find the
offender, and everything was in order by the time he returned.

On another occasion, when the President was attending the session of
the General Conference, the bell-clapper was taken out and hidden,
all the gates were carried off, Frazier’s old mail-hack was taken off
and not found for several days. One day we wanted holiday, and asked
for it. Professor Wright, who was in charge and had been having the
bell rung for a week with a rock, told the boys in the chapel to bring
up the clapper, bring the gates, and he would grant their request.
So, while a class was reciting, a long, lank fellow, who had been
“snipe-hunting” a few nights before, came in with the clapper, the
gates were put up, the bell tapped three times (the summons to chapel)
and we assembled and had our request granted. These were pleasant days
for the boys.

The boy who was wallowed in the snow, between Charles Davis’s and
“Uncle” Jabez Leach’s, by his rival, is living in Trinity now.

_The Party._—It was in the winter of 1874 that I got up a party—a
sham party, but the boys thought it was real and were in for it. I
made out a long list of ladies and opposite their names were placed
the boys’ names, but showed this list only to the boys that were to
be victimized. It was a very cold night; the ground was frozen. Mr.
Coltrain’s house was selected as the place for the party. I got only
about ten boys in the trap. These were cautioned to keep it a secret.
About $3.50 was collected from them to get refreshments. They each
wrote notes to the ladies that had been selected for them, and they
like the boys were delighted and accepted. Scroggs and I were to go
with some ladies from the country. This was a blind, but at the proper
time we started. Some of the boys saw us off. There was a new path just
above Prof. Doub’s, about fifty yards from the street. This is the
way Scroggs and I went, and we lay down by an oak tree. By and by we
heard our boys with their girls, going to the party. I can hear those
merry voices now. When they passed, we went back to our rooms. I had
arranged for them all to meet at Mr. Coltrain’s at the same hour, and
so they did. Gray knocked at the door. There were no lights to be seen
anywhere. Still none suspected what was up. Presently Mr. C. came to
the door—he was dressed in white—“What is the matter?” Gray answered,
“Nothing, we have come to the party” “—What party?”—“J. said there
was to be a party here tonight and we were all invited.”—“I know
nothing about it. We are all in bed.” Gray and the rest of them
discovered my joke. After the boys had taken the ladies home, they came
to my room, and with the money I had collected from them I gave them
a royal treat to candy and cigars. O, the fun I had over the joke! I
venture Gray and Turner have not forgotten it to this day.




Locals.


         T. E. McCRARY, _Hes._,  }
                                 }   REPORTERS.
         W. I. CRANFORD, _Col._, }

Beef! BEEF!! BEEF!!!

Examinations are here. Truly “man was made to mourn.”

It is reported that the Trinity Commercial Bank has “busted” again.
However, there have been no excursions to Canada yet.

The Trinity lawyers are having considerable practice now, in these
“evil days.”

“Benny” says he had a good time with his girl at Thomasville. He had
permission to go on business, and he went.

We have one Senior who—Well, we don’t know whether he will share his
commencement honors with some one else or not; but, if there is any
sign in noonday-dreams and long strolls, we th-th-think he w-will.

_Growth of a Big Book._—When Webster’s Unabridged was first published
in one volume, it was a comparatively small book. Some years after,
an addition was made of 1500 Pictorial Illustrations, A Table of
Synonyms, and an Appendix of New Words that had come into use. A few
years later came an entirely new revised edition of larger size, with
3000 Pictorial Illustrations; then, after an interval of a few years,
a Biographical Dictionary of nearly 10,000 Names, and a Supplement of
nearly 5000 New Words were added; and now there has come another new
and most valuable addition, A Gazetteer of the World, of over 25,000
Titles. The work is now not only _the best Dictionary_ of the words
of the language, but is a Biographical Dictionary, a Gazetteer of
the World, and a great many other good and useful things in its many
valuable Tables.

Mr. M. C. Thomas, of Cary, received the debater’s medal of the
Hesperian Society, and Mr. W. J. Helms of Poortith the debater’s medal
of the Columbian. Mr. W. B. Lee, of Durham, received the declaimer’s
medal of the Columbian, and Mr. J. R. McCrary the declaimer’s medal of
the Hesperian Society.

Messrs. G. T. Adams and E. L. Moffitt were elected President and
Vice-President of the Hesperian respectively, and Messrs. W. J. Helms
and W. H. Rhodes President and Vice-President of the Columbian Society
respectively for the 1st grade of the next College year.

Mr. C. Powell Karr, a graduate of School of Mines, Columbia College,
has in preparation a Manual of American Colleges, which proposes
to give in classified form all the leading Colleges, Universities,
Technical and Professional Schools, their requirements for admission,
courses of study, cost of tuition and living expenses, and in a word, a
systematic _resume_ of all the information needed by parents, guardians
and students to enable them to decide intelligently what college or
institution of learning it is best to attend. It is to be issued from
the press of William T. Comstock, New York.

Misses Edwards and Carr came home a few days ago afflicted with mumps.
We are glad to learn that they are now almost well. We hope that they
may so improve that by commencement “something sweet” will not hurt
their jaws.

_Robbed_.—Many of the boys and two or three members of the Faculty,
while at Guilford Battle Ground and on their return therefrom in May,
had their whole _hearts_ stolen. No public rewards have been offered
for the thieves, but we know not what private means have been employed
for their capture.

The last cold wet weather was good for the farmers’ patience, but bad
on their crops.

“Possum” no longer goes to Archdale by himself but carries a tall and
stalwart Junior along for protection against mud-holes.

THE ARCHIVE, under the management of Messrs. Nicholson and
Jones, has proved a financial success. Without the money subscribed by
the Societies, it has more than paid expenses.

The Business Managers intended to have THE ARCHIVE out for
Commencement, but the printers were so crowded as to be unable to
publish it sooner.

The party, on Thursday evening, was a fine success. If promenading be a
good exercise, surely none of the attendants on this occasion will have
need of more exercising before the next Commencement.

Teachers during vacation, farmers’ sons when work is slack on the farm,
and any others not fully and profitably employed, can learn something
to their advantage by applying to B. F. Johnson & Co., 1009 Main St.,
Richmond, Va.

Prof. Bandy is a whole-souled mathematician. He promised us a lecture
before commencement. If you have the blues or mental dyspepsy, come and
listen, he’ll do you good.

Prof. Price, who was graduated at Yale, and who afterwards spent two
years in France and Germany, and then served as tutor in Yale, was
recommended by the Faculty and elected by the Board of Trustees to take
charge of French and German. We welcome him to Trinity.

The medals and prizes were won as follows: Braxton Craven Medal, by W.
I. Cranford; the Wiley Gray, by George N. Raper; Pinnix Medal, by W. G.
Lee; Junior Prize (twenty-five dollars in books) by W. J. Helms; Senior
Prize in Politico-Socio Science, by George N. Raper.

We are glad to welcome back to Trinity, Prof. H. H. Williams who has
been elected to the Chair of Theology and Hebrew. The liberality of a
number of individuals, many of them ministers of the North Carolina
Conference, has enabled the Board to add at a late hour this much
needed Chair. It was possible to establish the other Chair (German and
French) by instituting strict economy, so that the expenses are not
increased beyond those of last year.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

Whereas, Almighty God, in his all-wise providence, has seen fit to
remove from us by death, Mr. FLETCHER R. DEARMAN, a graduate
of this institution and long a faithful member of the Hesperian
Literary Society; and, whereas we desire to give expression to the
bereavement sustained in the loss of our brother, and to our esteem for
his many noble qualities of heart. Therefore, be it

_Resolved_ 1st, That we sincerely sympathize with the bereaved wife in
this time of sorrow, and would point her to the consolations offered in
the Gospel;

2nd, That we express our sense of loss in the death of Mr. Dearman, a
member loyal to the Society, to the College and to the State;

3rd, That our Hall be draped in mourning for thirty days, as a token of
our respect for the deceased.

4th, That copies of these resolutions be sent to the Raleigh _Christian
Advocate_, _Yadkin Valley News_, and TRINITY ARCHIVE for
publication; also a copy to the family of the deceased, and a copy
spread upon the minutes of our Society.

                              M. C. THOMAS,     }
                              A. HASKINS,       } _Com._
                              L. S. MASSEY.     }




                           TRINITY COLLEGE.


                        Reorganized May, 1888.

        ☞ Preparatory Department Abolished. Business Department
                 Incorporated into the College Course.

                           NEW ORGANIZATION.


    TWO DEPARTMENTS:
           1. Academic Department, (Freshman and Sophomore years.)
           2. Scientific Department (Junior and Senior Years.)

    Academic Department has three courses of study:
          _a._ Classical Course—for those desiring
                    Latin and Greek.
          _b._ Modern Course—for those desiring Modern Languages.
          _c._ English—for those desiring English studies only.

    Mathematics, English and History equally in all courses in
        this department (2 years). All studies are required—no
        electives first two years except in English course,
        first term.

    Scientific Department has 15 schools open to any one who
        passes examinations on any corresponding study in
        Academic Department, for example, to enter schools of
        history students must pass examination on history in
        Academic Department.

    DEGREES IN COURSE:

      Four different degrees granted: Bachelor of Arts (A. B.),
          Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.), Bachelor of Science
          (B. S.) and Bachelor of Letters (B. L.), each requiring
          an equal amount of work but different in kind.

    REQUIREMENTS FOR A. B.:
           1. In Academic Department:—2 years; Classical Course.
           2. In Scientific Department:—18 hours work per week for
              2 years.

    Required work—9 hours per week:—
                One school of  Metaphysics,  3  hours.
                One   “    of  Languages,    3    “
                One   “    of  Nat. Science, 3    “

    Elective work—9 hours per week, in any of the 12 other
        schools. No Mathematics required for A. B. in last two
        years.

    REQUIREMENTS FOR BACHELOR OF SCIENCE. 1. In
        Academic Department. Either Modern Course or English
        Course of 2 years.

    2. In Scientific Dep’t:—
          School of Metaphysics,       3 hours per week.
             “   of English,           3   “    “    “
             “   of Civil Engineering, 3   “    “    “
             “   of Chemistry,         3   “    “    “
             “   of Nat. History,      3   “    “    “
         One “   of History,           2   “    “    “

    No Latin or Greek required for this degree. English
        may be taken instead of French and German
        requirements.

    REQUIREMENTS FOR DEGREE OF PH. B.:
          1. In Academic Dep’t—Modern Course of 2 years.
          2. In Scientific Department—Required:—
             School of Metaphysics                 3  hrs. per week.
                “   of Polit. and Social Science,  4   “    “   “
                “   of German,                     2   “    “   “
             Elective—9 hours in 12 other schools.

    REQUIREMENTS FOR DEGREE OF B. L.:
          1. In Academic Dept.—
               { *Classical Course of 2 years and
               { *Modern Course of French, 2 years.

            or { Modern Course and
               { Classical Course in Latin.

            or { Classical Course and
               { Modern Course in German 1 year followed by
               { a 2 years Course (of 2 hours) the school of German,
               { in the Scientific Department.

          2. In Scientific Dept.—Required:—
               School of Metaphysics,   3 hours per week.
                  “   of English,       3   “    “    “
                  “   of Nat. History,  3   “    “    “
               Elective—5 hours in 12 other schools.

    NO ONE ADMITTED TO COLLEGE WITHOUT EXAMINATION.

    Requirements for admission. (1) To Classical Course:
        Latin, English Grammar; Algebra (to Quadratics,) U. S.
        History, Arithmetic, Descriptive and Physical Geography,
        Physiology and Hygiene. (2) To Modern Course: Omitting
        Latin, same as for admission to Classical Course.
        (3) English Course: same as to Modern Course.

    Entrance Examinations, June 15th and 16th.
        “          “       Sept. 3rd and  4th.

        College opens and recitations begin, Sept. 6th.
        Send for Catalogue.

                          JOHN F. CROWELL, A. B.,
                                        _President_.


                             JOHN H. TATE,
                    Leading Retailer and Jobber of
                      Staple and Fancy Groceries,

                           FINE CONFECTIONS,

                _Foreign and Domestic Fruits_, _Nuts_,

                 FINE PATENT ROLLER FLOUR A SPECIALTY.

          _Best Line of Green and Roasted Coffees and Teas._

          I also keep in stock a good line of the celebrated

                          “Agate” Iron Ware,

                         WOOD AND WILLOW WARE,

           Lamps and Lamp Goods, Brooms, Kingan’s Fine Hams,
          Bacon and pure kettle rendered Lard. Prices as low
                            as the lowest.

              New Corner Store, next door to Post Office,

                                           HIGH POINT, N. C.


                      WHEN IN HIGH POINT CALL ON
                            R. C. CHARLES,

                                 —FOR—

                        Groceries of all Kinds.

               He has a large and well selected stock of
                       FRESH AND RELIABLE GOODS
                         bought low for cash.

              He can and does sell as low as the lowest.
             Will deliver goods at Trinity free of charge.

                     Send Your Orders to Charles.


                           Dr. H. C. PITTS,
                                DENTIST

                        _High Point, · · N. C._

                   ☞ Gas or Ether used if Desired. ☜

                    Office over Wrenn Bros’. Store.


                       PETERSON,
                             PHOTOGRAPHER,
                                     HIGH POINT, N. C.

                 _Solicits any kind of work of Trinity
                  students. Challenges comparison with
                  any work in the world. Groups, any size,
                  of the very best. Satisfaction in every
                  case guaranteed._


                 CALL AT                       CALL AT
                              WRENN BROS.

                   and see the spring attractions in

                     Men’s, Youths’ and Children’s

                   Clothing and Gents’ Furnishings.

                           Latest styles in

                         SOFT AND STIFF HATS.

           ☞ Elegant assortment of Neckwear. Shirts to order
             on short notice. A line of S. Gardner Jones’

                       Calf and Kangaroo Shoes.




                          HELLO, METHODISTS!

                         SEND FOR CIRCULAR TO
                        Piedmont Poultry Yard,

                          KNOB CREEK, N. C.,
                         and get prices of our

                     _Pure Blood Stock and Eggs_,

                    Brown Leghorns, Light Brahmas,
                   Langshans and Scotch Collie Dogs.

                 ☞ _Eggs for Hatching our Specialty._


                          DIKE BOOK COMPANY,

                 Opp. National Bank, GREENSBORO, N. C.

                Fine Books and Stationery OF ALL KINDS.

               Base-Ball Goods, Croquet Sets, Hammocks.

               Books of great value, including History,
                 Biography, Poetry, Travels, &c., for
                young men and students, at low prices.

                       _FULL LINE OF THE POETS._

           Latest Publications of Lovell’s Library, Munro’s
                          Library and others.


                               IMPORTANT

               To reduce our stock of clothing, we offer
               same for 30 days at =PRIME COST=

             50 Suits $4.50, $5.50, $6.50; 50 Suits $8.50,
             $10.50, $12.50; 25 suits, Corkscrew Worsted,
             $6.50, $8.50, $12.50, up.

             150 pairs Men’s Pants, 75c to $5.
             50 prs children’s pants, 35.

                                         R. J. LINDSAY & BRO.


          =$75 to $250 A MONTH= can be made working for
          us. Agents preferred who can furnish a horse and give
          their whole time to the business. Spare moments may be
          profitably employed also. A few vacancies in towns and
          cities.

                       B. F. JOHNSON & CO. 1009 Main St., Richmond, Va.


                            WM. PARTRIDGE,
                           HIGH POINT, N. C.

                         Makes a specialty of

             LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S FINE SHOES,
                 HAND SEWED SHOES,
                     FRENCH CALF SHOES,
                         HAND WELT SHOES,
                             GOODYEAR WELT SHOES,
                                 McKAY SEWED SHOES,
                   GENTLEMEN’S GENUINE KANGAROO SHOES.

                     J. FAUST & SON’S FINE SHOES.

               Dunlap & Youman’s block of STIFF HATS,
               also a fine line of CRUSH HATS.

                             _WM. PARTRIDGE_,
                               Boot, Shoe and Hat Store.


                           BROWN & MATTON,
                              DRUGGISTS

             NEXT DOOR TO POST OFFICE, HIGH POINT, N. C.

    Invite the students and friends of Trinity College to examine
                       their complete line of

               Toilet Articles, Perfumery, Stationery,

     and all articles usually found in a first class drug store.




                        _GRIMES  & STRICKLAND_,
                     Pharmacists and Apothecaries,
                           THOMASVILLE N. C.

                        Keep constantly on hand

                  PURE and FRESH DRUGS and MEDICINES.

            Best brands of Cigars and Tobaccos always on hand.
              Prescriptions carefully filled at all hours


                            BELLEVUE HOTEL.

                       J. N. CAMPBELL, MANAGER.

                    Headquarters for Sportsmen and
                         Commercial Travelers.

                           HIGH POINT, N. C.


        LOTHROP LITERATURE                   PRIZES.

         $2000.00—94 prizes—to all school people from College
         President to Primary Pupil. Full particulars in Wide
         Awake, 20cts. $1.20 for new volume, June—Nov.

                             D. LOTHROP COMPANY, BOSTON.

       _The time for sending MS. is extended to Oct. 1st._


    THE BEST.                                      THE BEST.

      Holmes’ New Readers, Maury’s Geographies, and
      Holmes’ New History are recommended by the State
      Board of Education for exclusive use in the schools
      of North Carolina. Best books at lowest prices. Every
      school should have them.

                                        UNIVERSITY PUB. Co.,
    19 Murray St.,                                NEW YORK.


                             THOMAS BROS.,
                  Successors to Thomas, Reece & Co.,

                                 POWER
                        Book AND Job Printers,

                           GREENSBORO, N. C.
                     _Printers of “The Archive.”_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRINITY ARCHIVE, VOL. I, NO. 8,
JUNE 1888 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
